type=page
status=published
title=Metrics Information Reference
next=java-es-monitoring-framework.html
prev=jmsra-properties.html
~~~~~~
Metrics Information Reference
=============================

The script content on this page is for navigation purposes only and does
not alter the content in any way.

[[GMADG00052]][[aeoor]]


[[metrics-information-reference]]
21 Metrics Information Reference
--------------------------------

This chapter describes the metrics information that a Message Queue
broker can provide for monitoring, tuning, and diagnostic purposes. This
information can be made available in a variety of ways:

* In a log file (see link:monitoring.html#aeois[Sending Metrics Data to
Log Files])
* Interactively with the Command utility's `imqcmd metrics` subcommand
(see link:broker-management.html#aeodo[Using the Command Utility])
* In metrics messages sent to a metrics topic destination (see
link:monitoring.html#aeojc[Using the Message-Based Monitoring API])
* Through JMX MBeans that can be accessed programmatically by Java
applications using the JMX Administration API.

The tables in this chapter list the kinds of metrics information
available and the forms in which it can be provided. For metrics
provided through the Command utility's `imqcmd metrics` subcommand, the
tables list the metric type with which they can be requested; for those
provided in metrics messages, the tables list the metrics topic
destination to which they are delivered. All the metrics information in
this chapter can be accessed progamatically using the JMX Administration
API as described in the Open Message Queue Developer's Guide for JMX
Clients

The chapter consists of the following sections:

* link:#aeoos[JVM Metrics]
* link:#aeoot[Brokerwide Metrics]
* link:#aeoou[Connection Service Metrics]
* link:#aeoov[Physical Destination Metrics]

[[aeoos]][[GMADG00304]][[jvm-metrics]]

JVM Metrics
~~~~~~~~~~~

link:#gbnmo[Table 21-1] shows the metrics information that the broker
reports for the broker process JVM (Java Virtual Machine) heap.

[[GMADG795]][[sthref254]][[gbnmo]]


Table 21-1 JVM Metrics

[width="163%",cols="17%,26%,42%,6%,9%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Metrics Quantity |Description |Log File? |`metrics` `bkr`Metric Type
|Metrics Topic
|JVM heap: total memory |Current total memory, in bytes |Yes |`cxn`
|`mq.metrics.jvm`

|JVM heap: free memory |Amount of memory currently available for use, in
bytes |Yes |`cxn` |`mq.metrics.jvm`

|JVM heap: max memory |Maximum allowable heap size, in bytes |Yes |None
|`mq.metrics.jvm`
|=======================================================================


[[aeoot]][[GMADG00305]][[brokerwide-metrics]]

Brokerwide Metrics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

link:#gbnoc[Table 21-2] shows the brokerwide metrics information that
the broker reports.

[[GMADG796]][[sthref255]][[gbnoc]]


Table 21-2 Brokerwide Metrics

[width="163%",cols="17%,26%,42%,6%,9%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Metrics Quantity |Description |Log File? |`metrics` `bkr`Metric Type
|Metrics Topic
|Connections | | | |

|Num connections |Total current number of connections for all connection
services |Yes |`cxn` |`mq.metrics.broker`

|Num threads |Total current number of threads for all connection
services |Yes |`cxn` |None

|Min threads |Total minimum number of threads for all connection
services |Yes |`cxn` |None

|Max threads |Total maximum number of threads for all connection
services |Yes |`cxn` |None

|Stored Messages | | | |

|Num messages |Current number of payload messages stored in memory and
persistent store |No |Nonelink:#foot-usequerybkr[^Foot 1 ^]
|`mq.metrics.broker`

|Total message bytes |Total size in bytes of payload messages currently
stored in memory and persistent store |No
|Nonelink:#sthref256[^Footref 1^] |`mq.metrics.broker`

|Message Flow | | | |

|Num messages in |Cumulative number of payload messages received since
broker started |Yes |`ttl` |`mq.metrics.broker`

|Num messages out |Cumulative number of payload messages sent since
broker started |Yes |`ttl` |`mq.metrics.broker`

|Rate messages in |Current rate of flow of payload messages into broker
|Yes |`rts` |None

|Rate messages out |Current rate of flow of payload messages out of
broker |Yes |`rts` |None

|Message bytes in |Cumulative size in bytes of payload messages received
since broker started |Yes |`ttl` |`mq.metrics.broker`

|Message bytes out |Cumulative size in bytes of payload messages sent
since broker started |Yes |`ttl` |`mq.metrics.broker`

|Rate message bytes in |Current rate of flow of payload message bytes
into broker |Yes |`rts` |None

|Rate message bytes out |Current rate of flow of payload message bytes
out of broker |Yes |`rts` |None

|Num packets in |Cumulative number of payload and control packets
received since broker started |Yes |`ttl` |`mq.metrics.broker`

|Num packets out |Cumulative number of payload and control packets sent
since broker started |Yes |`ttl` |`mq.metrics.broker`

|Rate packets in |Current rate of flow of payload and control packets
into broker |Yes |`rts` |None

|Rate packets out |Current rate of flow of payload and control packets
out of broker |Yes |`rts` |None

|Packet bytes in |Cumulative size in bytes of payload and control
packets received since broker started |Yes |`ttl` |`mq.metrics.broker`

|Packet bytes out |Cumulative size in bytes of payload and control
packets sent since broker started |Yes |`ttl` |`mq.metrics.broker`

|Rate packet bytes in |Current rate of flow of payload and control
packet bytes into broker |Yes |`rts` |None

|Rate packet bytes out |Current rate of flow of payload and control
packet bytes out of broker |Yes |`rts` |None

|Destinations | | | |

|Num destinations |Current number of physical destinations |No |None
|`mq.metrics.broker`
|=======================================================================


^Footnote 1 ^Use `query` `bkr` command instead

[[aeoou]][[GMADG00306]][[connection-service-metrics]]

Connection Service Metrics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

link:#gbnnb[Table 21-3] shows the metrics information that the broker
reports for individual connection services.

[[GMADG797]][[sthref257]][[gbnnb]]


Table 21-3 Connection Service Metrics

[width="163%",cols="17%,26%,42%,6%,9%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Metrics Quantity |Description |Log File? |`metrics` `svc`Metric Type
|Metrics Topic
|Connections | | | |

|Num connections |Current number of connections |No
|`cxn`link:#foot-alsoquerysvc[^Foot 1 ^] |None

|Num threads |Current number of threads |No
|`cxn`link:#sthref258[^Footref 1^] |None

|Min threads |Minimum number of threads assigned to service |No |`cxn`
|None

|Max threads |Maximum number of threads assigned to service |No |`cxn`
|None

|Message Flow | | | |

|Num messages in |Cumulative number of payload messages received through
connection service since broker started |No |`ttl` |None

|Num messages out |Cumulative number of payload messages sent through
connection service since broker started |No |`ttl` |None

|Rate messages in |Current rate of flow of payload messages into broker
through connection service |No |`rts` |None

|Rate messages out |Current rate of flow of payload messages out of
broker through connection service |No |`rts` |None

|Message bytes in |Cumulative size in bytes of payload messages received
through connection service since broker started |No |`ttl` |None

|Message bytes out |Cumulative size in bytes of payload messages sent
through connection service since broker started |No |`ttl` |None

|Rate message bytes in |Current rate of flow of payload message bytes
into broker through connection service |No |`rts` |None

|Rate message bytes out |Current rate of flow of payload message bytes
out of broker through connection service |No |`rts` |None

|Num packets in |Cumulative number of payload and control packets
received through connection service since broker started |No |`ttl`
|None

|Num packets out |Cumulative number of payload and control packets sent
through connection service since broker started |No |`ttl` |None

|Rate packets in |Current rate of flow of payload and control packets
into broker through connection service |No |`rts` |None

|Rate packets out |Current rate of flow of payload and control packets
out of broker through connection service |No |`rts` |None

|Packet bytes in |Cumulative size in bytes of payload and control
packets received through connection service since broker started |No
|`ttl` |None

|Packet bytes out |Cumulative size in bytes of payload and control
packets sent through connection service since broker started |No |`ttl`
|None

|Rate packet bytes in |Current rate of flow of payload and control
packet bytes into broker through connection service |No |`rts` |None

|Rate packet bytes out |Current rate of flow of payload and control
packet bytes out of broker through connection service |No |`rts` |None
|=======================================================================


^Footnote 1 ^Also available with `query` `svc` command

[[aeoov]][[GMADG00307]][[physical-destination-metrics]]

Physical Destination Metrics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

link:#gbnnf[Table 21-4] shows the metrics information that the broker
reports for individual destinations.

[[GMADG798]][[sthref259]][[gbnnf]]


Table 21-4 Physical Destination Metrics

[width="163%",cols="17%,12%,42%,6%,23%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Metrics Quantity |Description |Log File? |`metrics` `dst`Metric Type
|Metrics Topic
|Message Consumers | | | |

|Num consumers a|
Current number of associated message consumers

For queue destinations, this attribute includes both active and backup
consumers. For topic destinations, it includes both nondurable and
(active and inactive) durable subscribers and is equivalent to "Num
active consumers."

 |No |`con`
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Peak num consumers a|
Peak number of associated message consumers since broker started

For queue destinations, this attribute includes both active and backup
consumers. For topic destinations, it includes both nondurable and
(active and inactive) durable subscribers and is equivalent to "Peak num
active consumers."

 |No |`con`
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Avg num consumers a|
Average number of associated message consumers since broker started

For queue destinations, this attribute includes both active and backup
consumers. For topic destinations, it includes both nondurable and
(active and inactive) durable subscribers and is equivalent to "Avg num
active consumers."

 |No |`con`
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Num active consumers a|
Current number of associated active message consumers

For topic destinations, this attribute includes both nondurable and
(active and inactive) durable subscribers and is equivalent to "Num
consumers."

 |No |`con`
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Peak num active consumers a|
Peak number of associated active message consumers since broker started

For topic destinations, this attribute includes both nondurable and
(active and inactive) durable subscribers and is equivalent to "Peak num
consumers."

 |No |`con`
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Avg num active consumers a|
Average number of associated active message consumers since broker
started

For topic destinations, this attribute includes both nondurable and
(active and inactive) durable subscribers and is equivalent to "Avg num
consumers."

 |No |`con`
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Num backup consumerslink:#foot-queueonly3[^Foot 1 ^] |Current number of
associated backup message consumers |No |`con`
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Peak num backup consumerslink:#sthref260[^Footref 1^] |Peak number of
associated backup message consumers since broker started |No |`con`
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Avg num backup consumerslink:#sthref261[^Footref 1^] |Average number of
associated backup message consumers since broker started |No |`con`
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Stored Messages | | | |

|Num messages |Current number of messages stored in memory and
persistent store |No |`con``ttl``rts`link:#foot-aslsoquerydst[^Foot 2 ^]
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Num messages remote |Current number of messages stored in memory and
persistent store that were sent from a remote broker in a cluster. This
number does not include messages included in transactions. |No |Not
Availablelink:#foot-onlyquerydst[^Foot 3 ^] |Not Available

|Peak num messages |Peak number of messages stored in memory and
persistent store since broker started |No |`con``ttl``rts`
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Avg num messages |Average number of messages stored in memory and
persistent store since broker started |No |`con``ttl``rts`
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Total message bytes |Current total size in bytes of messages stored in
memory and persistent store |No |`ttl``rts`link:#sthref262[^Footref 2^]
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Total message bytes remote |Current total size in bytes of messages
stored in memory and persistent store that were sent from a remote
broker in a cluster. This value does not include messages included in
transactions. |No |Not Available link:#sthref263[^Footref 3^] |Not
Available

|Peak total message bytes |Peak total size in bytes of messages stored
in memory and persistent store since broker started |No |`ttl``rts`
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Avg total message bytes |Average total size in bytes of messages stored
in memory and persistent store since broker started |No |`ttl``rts`
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Message Flow | | | |

|Num messages in |Cumulative number of messages received since broker
started |No |`ttl`
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Num messages out |Cumulative number of messages sent since broker
started |No |`ttl`
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Msg bytes in |Cumulative size in bytes of messages received since
broker started |No |`ttl`
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Msg bytes out |Cumulative size in bytes of messages sent since broker
started |No |`ttl`
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Peak message bytes |Size in bytes of largest single message received
since broker started |No |`ttl``rts`
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Rate num messages in |Current rate of flow of messages received |No
|`rts` |None

|Rate num messages out |Current rate of flow of messages sent |No |`rts`
|None

|Rate msg bytes in |Current rate of flow of message bytes received |No
|`rts` |None

|Rate msg bytes out |Current rate of flow of message bytes sent |No
|`rts` |None

|Disk Utilization | | | |

|Disk reservedlink:#foot-filebasedonly[^Foot 4 ^] |Amount of disk space,
in bytes, reserved for destination |No |`dsk`
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Disk usedlink:#sthref264[^Footref 4^] |Amount of disk space, in bytes,
currently in use by destination |No |`dsk`
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName

|Disk utilization ratiolink:#sthref265[^Footref 4^] |Ratio of disk space
in use to disk space reserved for destination |No |`dsk`
|`mq.metrics.destination.queue.`queueName`mq.metrics.destination.topic.`topicName
|=======================================================================


^Footnote 1 ^Queue destinations only

^Footnote 2 ^Also available with `query` `dst` command

^Footnote 3 ^Available only with `imqcmd query dst` command

^Footnote 4 ^File-based persistence only


